# Glossary

A glossary of terms used by Agile Sprints.

## KPI

Key Performance Indicators.
Agile KPIs provide guidance for strategic planning, evaluation, and improving operational processes.
Traditional value management systems tend to focus on task completion within the framework of categorical schedule and cost.
KPIs are part of a broader family of agile KPIs.
Agile metrics include lean metrics, which focus on the flow of value from an organization to its customers, and Kanban metrics, which focus on workflow and getting tasks done.
While most agile metrics are applicable to scrum teams, scrum-specific metrics focus on predictable software delivery, making sure scrum teams deliver maximum value to customers with every iteration.

## OKR

Objectives and Key Results.
OKR: an Agile Goal Setting Framework.
OKR is a goal setting framework created by Intel and adopted by several Silicon Valley companies.
So an OKR can be thought of a commitment stated as: I will (Objective) as measured by (this set of Key Results).
OKR has a set of rules, although not as codified as Scrum.
Those rules determine what an Objective can be, what Key Results are, and how they work together to measure the achievement of goals.
Like Scrum, OKR has timeframes, however, these are a lot longer (quarterly and yearly) than two-week sprints.
Creating OKRs involves first, company leadership deciding what they want to achieve, then teams creating their own OKRs and aligning them to the goals of the company.

## Agile methodology

AGILE methodology is a practice that promotes continuous iteration of development and testing throughout the software development lifecycle of the project.
In the Agile model, both development and testing activities are concurrent, unlike the Waterfall model.

## SCRUM methodology

Agile scrum methodology is a project management system that relies on incremental development.
Each iteration consists of two- to four-week sprints, where each sprint's goal is to build the most important features first and come out with a potentially deliverable product.

## Sprint

Using Agile project management methodologies, projects are broken down into sprints or iterations.
These are short, repeatable phases, typically one to four weeks in length.
Each sprint should result in a draft, prototype or workable version of the final project deliverable.

## Velocity

Velocity is the master KPI you should look at.
It is a measure of the amount of work your team can tackle during a single sprint and is the key metric in Scrum.
How fast are we going is the question. It is a compound indicator of 5 different variables that are
(n) number of commits,
(e) edition,
(t) number of merged tickets,
(p) merged tickets average lead time,
(r) average time to review.
The computation is: velocity = n * e * t / (1000 * p * r).

Augmenting the teams' velocity should be your goal as a manager.
To do so, you have to identify the pain points in your organization such as stale tickets and lack of reviews.

In the future we will offer tooling and learning to augment your velocity.

## Feature

In agile development, a feature is a chunk of functionality that delivers business value.
Features can include additions or changes to existing functionality.
For planning purposes, some agile methodologies also use the notion of "work items" that can include features, bug fixes, documents, and other artifacts

## LOCs

Using Lines Of Code (LOCs) as a metric is meaningful on large scales only. So using it project-wise makes sense. Comparing LOCs produced per developer is pointless since their work may differ qualitatively. But comparing the evolution of LOCs sprints-wise gives a macrocopic view of your progress.

Remember to exclude large autogenerated files from the analysis by setting the exclusion patterns in our app.

## Commit

Commit to fulfill the Sprint Goal, which if well-crafted, tells the Development Team members why they are building the Increment.
Unlike the list of selected Product Backlog Items for the Sprint, the Sprint Goal is coarse enough to allow the Development Team to navigate and satisfy the commitment.
This avoids anyone blindly expecting that any single selected item will be delivered under any circumstance.
Commit to assure that they deliver a usable increment at the end of the Sprint, which includes only items that are fully finished according to the Definition of Done that has been agreed to beforehand.
Commit to continuously inspect and adapt, to better support the empiricism that lies at the heart of Scrum.
And at the end, commit to the values and elements that build up the framework, which allow us to tell that we are doing Scrum instead of anything else.

## Pull Request

## Review

## Tag

## Average

## Median

## Sprint activity

## Review turnaround
